[[fieldActions]]
== Transformations
Transformations are a set of functions you can apply onto a field as a part of mapping. These performs a variety of transformations in the middle of processing mappings. This is called FieldAction internally.

[width="84%",cols="23%,18%,19%,21%,19%",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Field Action |Input Type |Output Type |Parameter(s) (*=required)
|Description
|AbsoluteValue |Number |Number |n/a |Return the absolute value of a
number.

|Add |Collection/Array/Map |Number |n/a |Add the numbers in a
collection, array, or map's values.

|AddDays |Date |Date |days |Add days to a date. The default days is 0.

|AddSeconds |Date |Date |seconds |Add seconds to a date. The default
seconds is 0.

|Append |String |String |string |Append a string to the end of a string.
The default is to append nothing.

|Average |Collection/Array/Map |Number |n/a |Return the average of
the numbers in a collection, array, or map's values.

|Camelize |String |String |n/a |Convert a phrase to a camelized string
by: Removing whitespaceMaking the first word lowercaseCapitalizing the
first letter of each subsequent word

|Capitalize |String |String |n/a |Capitalize the first character of a
string.

|Ceiling |Number |Number |n/a |Return the whole number ceiling of a
number.

|Concatenate |Collection/Array/Map |String |delimiter |Concatenate a
collection, array, or map's values, separating each entry by the
delimiter if supplied.

|Contains |Any |Boolean |value |Return true if a field contains the
supplied value.

|ConvertAreaUnit |Number |Number |fromUnit *toUnit * |Convert a number
representing an area to another unit. The fromUnit and toUnit parameters
can be one of the following: Square FootSquare MeterSquare Mile

|ConvertDistanceUnit |Number |Number |fromUnit *toUnit * |Convert a
number representing a distance to another unit. The fromUnit and toUnit
parameters can be one of the following: FootInchMeterMileYard

|ConvertMassUnit |Number |Number |fromUnit *toUnit * |Convert a number
representing a mass to another unit. The fromUnit and toUnit parameters
can be one of the following: KilogramPound

|ConvertVolumeUnit |Number |Number |fromUnit *toUnit * |Convert a number
representing a volume to another unit. The fromUnit and toUnit
parameters can be one of the following: Cubic footCubic meterGallonLiter

|CurrentDate |n/a |Date |n/a |Return the current date.

|CurrentDateTime |n/a |Date |n/a |Return the current date/time.

|CurrentTime |n/a |Date |n/a |Return the current time.

|DayOfWeek |Date |Number |n/a |Return the day of the week for a date,
from 1 (Monday) to 7 (Sunday).

|DayOfYear |Date |Number |n/a |Return the day of the year for a date,
from 1 to 365 (or 366 in a leap year).

|Divide |Collection/Array/Map |Number |n/a |Divide each entry in a
collection, array, or map's values by its subsequent entry (A "normal"
division would only involve 2 entries).

|EndsWith |String |Boolean |string |Return true if a string ends with
the supplied string (including case).

|Equals |Any |Boolean |value |Return true if a field is equal to the
supplied value (including case).

|FileExtension |String |String |n/a |Retrieve the extension, without the
dot ('.'), of a string representing a file name.

|Floor |Number |Number |n/a |Return the whole number floor of a number.

|Format |Any |String |template * |Return a string that is the result of
substituting a field's value within a template containing placeholders
like %s, %d, etc., similar to mechanisms available in programming
languages like Java and C.

|GenerateUUID |n/a |String |n/a |Create a string representing a random
UUID.

|IndexOf |String |Number |string |Return the first index, starting at 0,
of the supplied string within a string, or -1 if not found.

|IsNull |Any |Boolean |n/a |Return true if a field is null.

|LastIndexOf |String |Number |string |Return the last index, starting at
0, of the supplied string within a string, or -1 if not found.

|Length |Any |Number |n/a |Return the length of the field, or -1 if
null. For collections, arrays, and maps, this means the number of
entries.

|Lowercase |String |String |n/a |Convert a string to lowercase.

|Maximum |Collection/Array/Map |Number |n/a |Return the maximum
number from the numbers in a collection, array, or map's values.

|Minimum |Collection/Array/Map |Number |n/a |Return the minimum
number from the numbers in a collection, array, or map's values.

|Multiply |Collection/Array/Map |Number |n/a |Multiply the numbers
in a collection, array, or map's values.

|Normalize |String |String |n/a |Replace consecutive whitespace
characters with a single space and trim leading and trailing whitespace
from a string.

|PadStringLeft |String |String |padCharacter *padCount * |Insert the
supplied character to the beginning of a string the supplied count
times.

|PadStringRight |String |String |padCharacter *padCount * |Insert the
supplied character to the end of a string the supplied count times.

|Prepend |String |String |string |Prepend a string to the beginning of a
string. The default is to prepend nothing.

|ReplaceAll |String |String |match *newString |Replace all occurrences
of the supplied matching string in a string with the supplied newString.
The default newString is an empty string.

|ReplaceFirst |String |String |match *newString |Replace this first
occurrence of the supplied matching string in a string with the supplied
newString. The default newString is an empty string.

|Round |Number |Number |n/a |Return the rounded whole number of a
number.

|SeparateByDash |String |String |n/a |Replace all occurrences of
whitespace, colons (:), underscores (_), plus (+), or equals (=) with a
dash (-) in a string.

|SeparateByUnderscore |String |String |n/a |Replace all occurrences of
whitespace, colon (:), dash (-), plus (+), or equals (=) with an
underscores (_) in a string.

|StartsWith |String |Boolean |string |Return true if a string starts
with the supplied string (including case).

|Substring |String |String |startIndex *endIndex |Retrieve the segment
of a string from the supplied inclusive startIndex to the supplied
exclusive endIndex. Both indexes start at zero. The default endIndex is
the length of the string.

|SubstringAfter |String |String |startIndex *endIndexmatch * |Retrieve
the segment of a string after the supplied match string from the
supplied inclusive startIndex to the supplied exclusive endIndex. Both
indexes start at zero. The default endIndex is the length of the string
after the supplied match string.

|SubstringBefore |String |String |startIndex *endIndexmatch * |Retrieve
the segment of a string before the supplied match string from the
supplied inclusive startIndex to the supplied exclusive endIndex. Both
indexes start at zero. The default endIndex is the length of the string
before the supplied match string.

|Subtract |Collection/Array/Map |Number |n/a |Subtract each entry in
a collection, array, or map's values from its previous entry (A "normal"
subtraction would only involve 2 entries).

|Trim |String |String |n/a |Trim leading and trailing whitespace from a
string.

|TrimLeft |String |String |n/a |Trim leading whitespace from a string.

|TrimRight |String |String |n/a |Trim trailing whitespace from a string.

|Uppercase |String |String |n/a |Convert a string to uppercase.
|=======================================================================
